[Music]
did you know that every time you're
watching a new video it's possible
thanks to the world's most powerful
supercomputer and I'm not talking about
your laptop or phone here I mean your
own brain let's take a journey in there
to find out how it works but first I'll
need a proper kind of equipment this
machine here will hey what oh my it
looks like I've turned myself into a
Soundwave oh well whatever works and
that's my friend down there so we'll get
to see what happens in his brain
interesting the outer ear catches the
sound wave and the journey begins it's
pretty tight in here in the ear canal
let me squeeze in there we go Nick stop
the ear drop it's about half the size of
a dime what was that the eardrum starts
vibrating I know that feeling so well
it's like when your neighbor's party so
hard you can hear it at the other end of
the street moving on to the middle ear
things are getting too loud here and
this must be the cochlea that's Greek
for snail by the way because duh that's
what it looks like it's pretty wet in
here it's all filled with liquid and
it's getting stormy what are all those
cute hairs there are so many of them oh
I feel ticklish buckle they move and
Bend and then the real magic happens
vibrations turn into nerve impulses here
woohoo things are getting crazy past
here we're
traveling down the auditory nerve next
up the brain I think I need to put my
shades on it's bright and sparkly in
here all those trees look like they've
come straight out of a sci-fi movie what
if I touch it oh-ho it's like a
lightning now these are my fellow new
rods there are about a hundred billion
of them about as many as the stars in
the Milky Way you get most of them at
birth but as you get older your brain
keeps producing new ones Wow that was
bright and again neuron sent somewhere
between 5 to 50 messages every second
more on that later we have places to go
there are hundreds of neuron types and
three main classes sensory neurons are
like little secret service agents they
collect information from your sense
organs like eyes and ears and deliver it
to your central nervous system these
here are motor neurons they're the big
bosses in your body they get information
from other neurons and deliver it to
your muscles organs and glands so
basically they're telling you what to do
all the rest are inter neurons they
collect and receive information from
other neurons this action is never
ending
it's like a huge chemical factory
neurons work so hard they produce enough
energy to light up a low voltage LED
bulb Hey just try it yeah they did it
the speeds in here are crazy up to 250
miles per hour like sports cars but
let's slow down for a moment I want to
know what happens here
welcome to the cerebrum the largest part
of the brain or around 85% so glad I
never skipped anatomy class mm-hmm the
outer layer of the cerebrum is made of
gray matter the rest of the core is made
of white matter does it matter yes it
does the cerebrum interprets your senses
of vision hearing taste smell and touch
you can feel different emotions and
learn new things thanks to it did you
know your brain has unlimited storage
capacity
so that's what all these folds and
grooves here are for okay enough with
the cerebrum the next highlight on the
itinerary today is the cerebellum also
known as the little brain it's indeed
way smaller than the cerebrum but not
any less important of course careful
that was one rough turn your little
brain receives info from the sensory
systems and the spinal cord and is in
charge of the motor movements so thanks
to it you can walk without falling have
good posture and even speak it also
helps you concentrate and keep emotions
under control that differs person to
person of course are you mostly calm or
is it easy to freak you out let me know
in the comment section below
we still have places to go so let's keep
moving neurons here come in all shapes
and sizes but all have three basic parts
there is the cell body the long tail
called exon and dendrite that looks like
tree branches if you zoom in on it
neurons receive most of their
information thanks to the dendrites
let's hang on here and watch
that's quite a show information
transmission in progress just one neuron
can't do much by itself so they work
together as teams they talk in their
secret language of electrical and
chemical signals ooh did you see that
little light just go out if not all
messages can go through neurons sort of
learn the relevant from the ear relevant
and when you do something again and
again so the same signal is going
through the message gets even faster and
is more likely to reach the goal one
more thing that makes some parts of your
brain more active is love it lights up
an MRI scan hold on I think because of
all those love talks we missed our next
stop let's go back a bit
nope not what we were looking for hmm so
easy to get lost in this maze maybe it's
here we're looking for something really
small and almond shaped yay meet the
amygdala everyone it's on our must-see
list today because it plays a super
important role it handles your emotions
like fear and sadness and helps you keep
your temper under control and it's like
a scrapbook for your memories of events
and emotions it stores them so you can
recognize similar things in the future
alright what's next oh that must be the
brainstem it's in charge of
communication between the brain and the
rest of your body and you should also
thank it for the things you do
automatically breathing keeping your
heartbeat regular digesting food and
other basics the brainstem is connected
directly to the spinal cord that's the
central highway of your nervous system
oh what's there
traffic police hey I wasn't speeding
officer I promise
everyone is crazy fast in here this
highway has lanes moving in both
directions carrying messages to and from
the brain hey Steve what are you doing
don't you see that door right in your
face do something brain you have to send
a signal to his muscles okay I have to
save him
to the rescue who made it I'm human
again and that phone is still ringing
how long have I been away for just so
you know it looks like this all happened
in one thousandth of a second Wow
[Music]